Learning Javascript can be a bit tricky. But it is a very friendly language. 
I want to learn it in under 7 days. I do not know how I can achieve this but I will with. I am positive. 
Still learning something small. It has been 14 days ever since. Cannot say I am that confident to take upon a real time project though. 

Something i did not know about javascript is that it could build both apps and web servers. Also cross-platform. Learn the client side first, followed by the server side. Give you power on Web Development, Web Applicaton (API manipulating), Server Application (NodeJS), Creative Coding (artistry brought in code).

characteristics of js = 
JS is an interpreted language - no need for a compiler. same goes for python. 


FILE MANAGEMENT IN JS

    Also called file handling. Creating, Reading, Updating, Deleting (CRUD). 
    fs is the name of the module. has open(), append(), writeFile(), readFile(), 

'void' discards the expression return value 
"in" is a keyword that return true if the specified property is in an object
"delete" removes an object property or an element of an array

difference between data structures and data types is that data strucutres are a collection of data types arranged in a given order. data type is a particular kind of data item that is defined by the values it can take. float, boolean, integer, string, character.
types of data structures are 1 Linear 2 Non linear 

1 Linear 

Those that are arranged in a given sequence.
Traversed through with a single run
Under utilization of memory. 
Varied time complexity since the increase in data size means more time to check through the data structure. 
Arrays, Stack, Queue, Linked List 

2 Non linear 
Those that are not arranged in a given sequence but in a hierarchical manner. 
Traversed through multiple runs. 
More utilizaiton of memory compared to linear data structures.
Constant time complexity.
Graph (spanning tree, min spanning, adjacency matrix, adjacency list), Tree (binary, binary search)

HIGHLIGHTED REASONS AS TO WHY TO STUDY DSA 

    Helps a developer know the optimal ways of solving and writing the right code at a given time. This in turn leads to better systems. 
    This boosts not only your career in programming or development (big companies are after those who have a good mastery in algorithms) but also problem solving and thinking as a whole.
    It lets you know that time is precious, so automation is necessary. With that automation comes scaling - grow on to handle even bigger problems that would try to take away some of our precious time. 


#STILL SHARPENING MY JS
- Destructuring assignment can be on arrays and objects
- You can even do rest (like etc) in destructring. Kinda like you do not care about what follows about the next items. Only done as the last element though never first
- the shift method in an array removes the first item and pop method removes the last item on the array
- push adds another item to the array, pop can remove the recently added thing
- Learning that constructors are functions that are used to create objects (templates of an object)

- About type casting... there is implicit and explicit type casting
- Explicit makes use of the function "Number()"


Code Project 
    1 Quote Generator
    2 Movie Theatre Booking
    3 

Real World Application of Airport data
- Flight Route Planning (emergency response, )
- Travel Recommendations
- Air Traffic Management
- Logistics (cargo)
- 

CODING IDEAS

trying to blend learning data structures with projects. the fact that i have not done this sooner
is the same fact i want to furiously finish off with it. there are many, so it might take a while

1
Thinking of an idea that I can try out. learnt about 'priority queues' in design analysis of algorithms,
would be nice to see through one for cinema theatre in javascript

2
'trees' could come in handy to illustrate my family. for a binary tree, maybe male and female members 
with respect of their ages


